# Changelog

## v0.5.1

* Fixed a bug that was causing **every** function to have an `opts` argument, even if it didn't have any optional args.
* Fixed a crash when a `Connection` tries to terminate because its parent process has exited.  Now it should crash *correctly*. 🙂
* Added some tests.  More to come.

## v0.5.0

Major (and very breaking) overhaul to function arguments.

### Connection references

* Functions that return remote object reference(s) — `SpaceCenter.active_vessel`, `Orbit.body`, etc. — will now return structure(s) containing the reference and the connection it was retrieved via.
* Functions that take a `this` parameter as their first argument — `Vessel.max_thrust`, `Flight.mean_altitude`, etc. — no longer take a `conn` argument before the `this` argument.  Instead, they use the connection from `this`.
* For example, `Vessel.max_thrust(conn, vessel)` becomes `Vessel.max_thrust(vessel)`.
* This also means functions are now chainable, e.g. `SpaceCenter.active_vessel(conn) |> Vessel.max_thrust()`.

### Optional arguments

* Functions that have arguments with default values, now expect those arguments in a `key: value` keyword list form.
* Said arguments can be omitted, and will send the default value if so.
* For example, `Vessel.flight(vessel, frame)` is now either `Vessel.flight(vessel, reference_frame: frame)`, or `Vessel.flight(vessel)` if the default value is desired.

### Stream changes

* New stream functions added:
  * `SpaceEx.Stream.start/2`
  * `SpaceEx.Stream.remove/2`
* Multiple attempts to stream the same data will no longer result in hanging behaviour.
  * Instead, they'll all reuse the same `Stream` process.
* Streams are no longer linked to the process that creates them.
  * This becomes dangerous behaviour when multiple independent streaming requests can result in using the same process.
  * Instead, they're linked to the `StreamConnection` process.
* The `StreamConnection` process is now linked to the `Connection` process.
  * They were previously "linked by proxy" via the process that created them, but became unlinked if that process exited normally.
  * Now, the `Connection`, `StreamConnection`, and all `Stream` processes are linked, and an error in any will take the whole connection stack down.
* Streams are now "bonded" to any process that requests their creation, even if they're being reused.
  * Calling `remove/2` will terminate the bond.
  * The stream will automatically shut itself down (and request removal from the server) if all bonds call `remove/2` or terminate.
* `Event.remove` added; delegates to `Stream.remove`.

### Other changes

* `Procedure.new` removed.
  * Procedures are now generated by internal methods on the service modules themselves; it no longer makes sense to manually create them.
* Connections now explicitly `Process.monitor` the process that launched them, and exit when that process does.
* Documentation now correctly lists parameters in `snake_case` rather than `camelCase`.
* Several KRPC functions are now marked as undocumented (hidden):
  * `add_stream`
  * `add_event`
  * `remove_stream`
  * `set_stream_rate`
  * `start_stream`
  * These functions are used internally by the `Event` and `Stream` classes and should not be used directly.
* Upgraded to Elixir 1.6:
  * All warnings fixed.
  * All code reformatted using the new auto-formatter.

## v0.4.0

* Complete rewrite of the API JSON parsing code.
  * The API should remain 100% the same, but the internals are much cleaner now.
  * All aspects of the JSON are parsed immediately under the `SpaceEx.API` module.
  * Types are parsed into `SpaceEx.API.Type.*` structs at compile time.
  * Runtime type encoding/decoding uses functions instead of macros.
  * Documentation now builds an index of cross-references and uses that instead of guesswork.

## v0.3.0

* `Stream.wait` added.
* Events added.
* sub_orbital_flight.exs and .craft added, ported from kRPC SubOrbitalFlight.py.  Provides example of Events.
* launch_into_orbit.craft added, and .exs made more true to original.
* **Breaking changes to RPC call syntax:**
  * All calls return their return value directly, not an `{:ok, value}` tuple.
  * `SpaceEx.Connection.RPCError` is raised on errors instead.
  * All `get_` and `static_` function prefixes are removed.
  * ExDoc examples and example scripts still need to be updated.

## v0.2.0

* Changelog created.
* Stream functionality added.
